Please click on the blue inputs and analysis button here for Step 5 where we're going to talk about
the product or service or both that you are discussing in your out your business plan.
And it's important to note that I put this after the management team because a lot of the most sophisticated
investors and people that have Star a lot of companies understand that having a great management team
is more important than anything else.
And a lot of very successful investors for example would rather invest in a in a management team with
a b business model instead of investing in a B management team with an a business model.
So it's very important that's why we spend a lot of time on it and that will pay off handsomely for
you in dividends.
Once once we create the final output your reader will love it.
Okay great.
So let's get started here.
So the first one here is not optional because there's no optional right in front of it here but it's
called detailed product or service description.
OK.
So if you wrote what your detailed or what your product or service scription was in Step 1 it will appear
here.
Right it's actually a typo of that's supposed to be in 15 words or less.
Keepin it real here.
OK.
It'll appear here and if you haven't done it yet then go back to Step 1 if you want and true that in
can.
And if you're if you're technical whatever.
Or a nerd like I am.
You can always click on here and just see how I wrote that stuff right.
And so let's say we copy this here if you want your product or service description and you can paste
it directly in here to jump to where you wrote that in this dashboard or what you can do.
Just do the dropdown here and go all the way down to your product or service description which is here
right.
And that will jump directly back to where you wrote that in this part of the course here it's empty
as you can see.
But if I wrote here test sample description you'll see that that will appear automatically here in step
5.
So because it's tagged.
So let's go back now to here and you'll see that that should appear directly there instead 5 OK.
Here it is.
OK we can see that you wrote this.
Now what I want you to place is I want to add to this.
OK.
And if you want more real estate or space up here you can get rid of that and minimize this as well.
We'll take a second or two for it to close but I gave you the options well if you want.
OK.
And so what you do is you're going to write one to three sentences maybe a paragraph a little bit more
if you want just on a more elaborate description of your product or your service and just include the
value proposition for your customers and every time you answer a question in a document like this in
a business in general ask yourself two words.
So what you ask yourself so what why am I writing this why is it important for the reader of the business
plan to see it so you can use this as an example if you want.
And I put here.
Copyright trademark.
And let's just pretend that I've seen a copywriter or trademark but just go through this look at my
example.
If you want and then enter in your ear your answer here.
And then the next one this is this here is optional but and so a lot of the best business models are
scalable and that basically means can they grow really quickly in a lot of times.
Platforms the best business models out there and a platform basically means if you own the road and
then everybody else are cars or tollbooths and you charge the cars.
So Microsoft Windows is a platform because companies that make software on top of it help to sell Windows.
You know the iOS operating system or Android those are platforms as well because people buy apps that
are on top of that platform.
Facebook.
Facebook has the quintessential social media platform even though I don't trust them whatever.
Well a side note there.
But but that's a social media platform.
LinkedIn is probably the best jobs based platform out there etc..
So if your platform and if you own a platform or if you're Bismo scalable you can answer that question
here.
If not just skip it because it is optional.
OK moving on quality control what is your quality control process and the people reading your business
plan will love to see how thoughtful you are with your entire business plan detail read up.
If you addressed things like quality control but made it optionals Well okay here.
You can write about packaging if you have a package based product.
You can write it here in and here I kind of wrote about the whole unboxing process of my goggles my
pretend product and I even set it up so that you get those birthday greetings cards and you open it
up and there is you know somebody saying birthday to you whatever.
Well I actually hypothetically hired Morgan Freeman to write or to say when you open up the box for
Sharq virtual reality goggles.
Welcome to the future of entertainment.
I will see you in the movies.
I love Shawshank Redemption best movie ever.
But anyway it is just kind of an example and unbuckling is really important.
I mean people who make a career out of this are on YouTube now and my kids who inspire me I learn a
lot from them.
Packaging is really important.
Its so funny because I'll buy stuff and then when it arrives through Amazon in the mail my kids will
all ask me Can I open it and box in the box.
So it's important that you you look at this because this is the first impression that a potential customer
is going to get of your products.
I guess the key is to try and keep it somewhat cheap though so it doesn't kind of cost too much.
Apple does a great job of this.
That's why they can charge a premium for all their brands.
OK.
So let's move on now.
All right next up production if this is applicable that you just talk about or write down here quickly
what the production process is of of your of your product is and how you create these products and how
long it takes to get to the customer that sort of thing.
And I give an example here that my kids love this company scuffed gaming they make customized video
game controllers and you know just hypothetically speaking.
I'm kind of saying that's how we're going to create our customized product that sort of thing.
And I love my kids.
All right let me talk about the current price strategy.
This one's mandatory.
The future one is optional but here just talk about your pricing policy against all made up data here.
Is it a subscription model which investors love because it shows great revenue visibility over time.
And then if you change a plan to change your pricing model or add to it in the future then you can answer
this simple question here of what your future pricing strategy or price strategy will be.
And if you have a bundle pricing strategy longer term kind of like how when you buy certain products
like like a computer all this kind of awful antivirus bloatware stuff is on when you buy Windows based
PC that's a bundling pricing strategy.
Talk about that if it's applicable.
And then here you can talk about volume discounts like if schools or certain institutions buy a lot
of your product in a certain amount they get a certain discounts.
This might not be economically feasible for a shark virtual reality this is just a dummy data there.
Then you can talk about financing if you sell a higher priced product.
Are you partnering with a third party financing company to finance it in a lot of times when you buy
a car so you buy it from Toyota or you'll deal with a different entity called the bank of Toyota or
another firm in general.
You know it's like when you buy a house you'll deal with a certain bank to get a mortgage and then just
as a little side note if you were to click here in settings and you want to learn more about the top
five banks in your country I've got them all listed here for you directly down here for every single
country is took forever to do.
But hopefully hopefully you enjoy.
Hopefully it's helpful.
Ok where was I again.
Here sorry.
So products.
All right.
Let me just scroll scroll down a bit to get back to where we were.
And again if we just click directly on the tabs in the bottom it would not have jumped to the top.
OK.
So next up we've got we've got freemium or a premium strategy do you plan on offering an app for example
it's free.
And then if you want some higher end stuff as a part of it then you pay like Clash of Clans that that
video game which I may or may not still play with my kids every single night before I put to bed maybe
I don't know.
But that's a free app but you pay if you want to get jems and my kids are into this whole voicebox thing
now which they want for their allowance because they play a lot for night which is take it over my house
but they can only play on weekends now.
OK.
Next up is optional input prices and this is where if you want you can write about how much it costs
to make your product.
And if you have a hedging strategy in place if what you're making requires a lot of natural resources.
I'll give you a quick example.
Skip fast forward if you want to this point in the lecture.
If you don't care about this but a lot of companies that that make products that use a lot of natural
resources what they'll do is they will hedge out the price of natural resources longer term just in
case there's a big price fluctuation.
So for example and this is actually fascinating.
There's a company Southwest which is a great airline in the United States.
The ticker is El-Rufai love which is the name of their they're there in their home airport love joy
or whatever.
And then basically what they did was back in 0 1 and 0 2 when the price of oil was spiking to over $100
or eventually spiked to a hundred dollars I should say what they did was they hedged forward the price
of oil at 30 bucks a barrel so that no matter what happened for about 10 years after 0 1 or whatever
they were able to buy oil at 30 30 bucks a barrel head of over $100 a barrel.
And what they did was this allowed them to hedge the price for themselves and make a lot of money and
they actually used predatory pricing to cut prices materially and force a couple of airlines to potentially
go into bankruptcy that's a little side note.
Off topic.
OK let's move on.
But if you write stuff like that in your in your business plan that you've you're looking into hedging
or you do hedge or as part of a larger strategy you might hedge.
It really looks great in the eyes of the reader that you've covered every single angle there is when
writing this bad ass business plan.
Next up we've got distribution strategy.
OK who's going to sell your products to your customers.
OK.
And how are you going.
And don't spend too much time on this because we're going to spend a lot more time on distribution to
customers as part of what's called the go to market strategy in Step 8 over here.
OK.
And instead they will talk about your direct and indirect distribution channels selling to wholesale
and retail if applicable.
Using third parties to sell your product or services Well maybe you can just read this here and just
wrap a quick answer here.
If you want OK.
And then this is optional do you offer a refund policy.
So for example if you're taking this course over you to me there's a 30 day 100 percent money back guarantee
on this course whatever that sort of thing.
Let's see.
And I think that is it's I think we're done with this so as you answer the questions as with all previous
steps the stuff that is is is required being the non optional stuff will automatically update.
So if I click this here happens up here this will get updated.
Come on.
There you go 33 percent done so obviously means that that means there's only three required questions
here and you can always override that by clicking here which will automatically make this 100 percent.
We have no flags here.
That's fine.
You know you already know how to add flags and comments on the right side there.
It looks like we are we are over 30 percent done.
We are now 36 percent done WOO-HOO making great progress.
And I will see you in the next lecture where we will talk about the outputs for Step 5.